---
layout: post
title: Testing the Project Site - Bootcamp Week 3
date:   2018-01-26 11:15:06 +0100
category: [learn]
tags: [drupal, bootcamp, build, ui/ux]
excerpt: "<p>FThis week we got the brief for our final project. The task is to set up a Drupal website and we were given three projects to choose from. I have gone for the Charity Blog site as reading through the brief that seemed the most challenging and also very relevant to me coming from the non-profit sector it was a topic close to my heart.</p>"
---

## Day 1 - 3

With all functionalities finalised [on the site](http://dev-appcharity.pantheonsite.io/) it was time for some further user testing (with charity professionals) including going through some user journeys based on the user groups I have identified last week:

1. Readers:
+ commenters
+ potential bloggers
2. Bloggers

### UX elements I have added before testing

Being a stickler for human(user)-centred design I thought about what both my main user groups will want to see and how I can boost their UX with some additional functions.

1. A **topics menu around the fold of the front page** making it easier to go to posts on a certain topic

{% include img.html file='charity-topics.png' alt='topics menu'
caption='responsive menu with large buttons and icons in the name of UX' -%}

2. Small **Get Involved block for the second aside** integrated at certain pages where sign ups are expected (topics, blog posts, about)

{% include img.html file='getinvolvedmodule.png' alt='topics menu'
caption='CTA block for recruitment' -%}

3. Our Bloggers block **featuring all blogger bios at the bottom of the frontpage**. This is a great way of giving back to their contributions and also possible motivation for readers(potential bloggers) who are thinking about signing up.

4. **Minimising blogger log in to increase UX for readers** but not enough to hurt blogger UX. The logic behind this is that bloggers are all digital professionals so I assume their skills are higher whereas our readers who are here to learn may not have the similar technological confidence and therefore would get confused by a very visible login module (with username and pw fields).

{% include img.html file='charity-login.png' alt='small login text link'
caption='Small text link, nothing more in order to avoid distracting/confusing readers' -%}

### User journeys

- Reader looking for donation topics wants to look up a term in a post
- Reader who wants to sign up - possible points of entry (inspired to sign up)
- Blogger - needs to add new post, preview, revise and delete it.

## Testing found the following issues

1. The profile pictures of bloggers in their bios get ridiculously tiny on smaller displays.

{% include img.html file='charity-profile-bug.png' alt='tiny profile picture'
caption='Tiny profile pics on small screens' -%}

#### Solution in progress

- Changed ‘responsiveness’ of the image table field in the views to ‘low’. This did not resolve the issue.
- Using Chrome's Dev Tools I've tested a fixed table-layout. This resulted in an improvement in the image but makes the element's height a bit too high for good UX/UI.
- I've decided to remove the image column on smaller screens with adding display:none (TBD)

{% include img.html file='charity-profile-bug2.png' alt='larger profile picture'
caption='Fixed table-layout creates a large card' -%}

2. Using the main search bar to conduct a search took you to the /search results page which then subsequently had two search bars

     **Solution:** The main search block had to be hidden from the layout of the search results page.

3. Search results showed both content and users. Once the ‘user’ tab was clicked and then you clicked back to content your results were gone.

     **Solution:** Tried to find an AJAX solution first but having failed that I have just restricted search to content only.

4. Form descriptions are not inline which is a recipe for bad UI induced user errors.

     **Solution:** Placed a short placeholder text inside the fields instead of using a description.

5. For journey #2 (reader wanting to sign up to be a blogger) feedback was that "there should be a CTA on the homepage."

    **Solution:** Changed CTA background to red and added it to more pages (where logical) for anon users.

{% include img.html file='charity-largecta.png' alt='larger CTA'
caption='large CTA' -%}

6. Minor CSS kinks e.g. breakpoints, colouring and paddings.

     **Solution:** Adjust the correct css files.

## My Greatest Challenge

Having more or less gotten used to Drupal and its quirky ways (e.g. hunting for a checkbox for an hour that does what I want) my greatest issue stemmed from my chosen subtheme. For some reason **the main SCSS compiled in a way that it changed all backgrounds and text to #fff**.

{% include img.html file='charity-white.png' alt='white on white css'
caption='White on white. Creates a nice, clean website' -%}

By the time I've tracked down the cause I have already written a LOT of custom CSS. Figured it was good practice.

## Done?

Never. There is always something to smooth out, something to add. So far I've had the following ideas I want to add to the site in the future:

- Dropdown menu for topics.
- Allow bloggers to add to the Glossary vocabulary. They already have the permission but it does not seem enough.
- Glossary term descriptions as tooltips (some of them have way too long descriptions for this though).
- Add ‘writes in the following topics’ on users profile pages either from signup or contextual filter automatically lifting the taxonomy term (blog topic) from created blog posts.