---
layout: post
title:  Setting up a Drupal Blog - Bootcamp Week 1
date:   2018-01-12 11:15:06 +0100
category: [learn]
tags: [drupal, bootcamp, build]
excerpt: "<p>First week of the Pre-Apprenticeship Bootcamp we had to set up a Drupal Blog with a set list of criteria. This was my very first Drupal site. I had a LOT to learn.</p>"
---

First week of the Pre-Apprenticeship Bootcamp we had to set up a [Drupal(8) Blog](http://dev-krisblog.pantheonsite.io/) with the following criteria:
Must Have:

   ✓ Tables on the about page outlining qualifications and work experience

   ✓ Blog posts at /blog using a new content type of ‘post’

   ✓ Contact form at /contact

Bonus points:

   ✓ Change the theme to a sub-theme of a contributed one

   ✓ Add 3 blog posts to the homepage in a block view

We also had to do the same for a WordPress blog but that wasn't really a challenge.

## The challenges

### Drupal…?

I went into this with zero experience in Drupal. Coming from a Wordpress environment you can imagine how I’ve felt when I was faced with ‘content types’, ‘views’ and all the lingo. It took me a few hours to get my head around it and learn to think in Drupal. I have watched a few tutorial videos to more or less get acquinted with the system and then just decided to have a go on my own…

### Do you want to delete the frontpage?

In my haste to rip the RSS feed off my frontpage view I have successfully managed to delete my frontpage view. Ooops. After some furious googling looking for a template to recreate it I have decided to just figure it out myself. Took me about half an hour but all is well now.

### The website encountered an unexpected error. Please try again later

On the second day of development - out of the blue - I got the coveted “The website encountered an unexpected error. Please try again later.” anytime I wanted to access the front end or work on content. Things gradually got worse until even the admin side started crashing. I was stumped. I haven’t installed any new modules or done anything significant to the core. All I was doing in the hours leading up to this was updating the site with content.

#### Step 1 - Google

I’ve found a lot of people in similar situations but no real solutions. Unfortunately, with Drupal 8 being so new, there is little help out there. I haven’t actually found anyone who - like myself - experienced this whilst simply updating content.

#### Step 2 - Freak out

Yes, that happened. I briefly considered just starting from scratch but my stubbornness did not let me give up.

#### Step 3 - Investigate

I have retraced my steps but found nothing. Then, I have clicked on ‘Appearance’ and lo and behold the Bootstrap theme seem to have gone AWOL.
I had no commits to fall back on (we concentrated on the front-end and haven’t set up FTP or Git for version control). Needless to say my folders were a mess.

#### Step 4 - Starting over

As I got to the point that I couldn’t even change my front-end theme I have decided to start over. I figured it’s better to have some practice at the basic setup than to go into a very specific error and try to fix that.

### Takeaway

- More confident Drupal CMS user. There are still things that still baffle me but being familiar with the terminology now it is much easier and faster to find answers to my questions.
- Getting out of my comfort zone is good sometimes.

## Next up
[Building a mock charity website]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2018-01-19-bootcamp2.md %})
