---
layout: post
title: Hosting on the cheap
date: 2018-09-17 15:15:06 +0100
tags: [build]
---

Static sites are awesome. Basically, by now you don’t have to pay for hosting a static website unless you are reeeeally picky. I’m not, so this Jekyll site is proudly hosted free by Github (thank you Microsoft!) whilst my React app is resting comfy on Netlify servers without me losing any money. These are all great, fast solutions that also don’t require me doing any DevOps (well, not much). With a bunch of solutions out there you can now even have a static ecommerce site.

## I want to host my Wordpress site for free too!

If your Wordpress site has static potential - as in, it's basically just a blog you update once in a while, it has a few static pages and maybe a contact form - but you don't want to go through the hastle of transforming it into Jekyll, Hugo, Gatsby or whatever, worry not. There is a neat little Wordpress plugin that turns your site into a static website. Obviously you cannot do this if your content depends on communication with your server but just so you know, there **is** a way to host your Wordpress site for free.

## Hosting for dynamic sites

[Mark, a DevOps guy has written a very comprehensive and much more detailed article](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/09/the-ultimate-guide-to-choosing-a-wordpress-host/) for those interested.

If you are still with me, let me give you the tl;dr version:

<ul>
  <li><strong>Shared hosting:</strong> cheap but not particularly good and some of it is plagued by unexpected downtimes and speed issues.</li>
  <li><strong>Managed hosting:</strong> is slightly better as it’s optimised for Wordpress (usually) in terms of security and the scripts you can run on it.</li>
  <li><strong>VPSs:</strong> are pretty much the best and with the likes of DigitalOcean you can start off quite cheap with a dedicated Wordpress Droplet but bear in mind you’ll need to know a bit of DevOps/sys admin stuff for this to be on the same level as managed hosting (there's plenty of help in the Docs). Or you can just go for the slightly more expensive managed cloud hosting like Runcloud.</li>
</ul>