---
layout: post
title:  Drupal Project Site - Bootcamp Week 2
date:   2018-01-19 11:15:06 +0100
category: [learn]
tags: [drupal, bootcamp, build, ui/ux]
excerpt: "<p>FThis week we got the brief for our final project. The task is to set up a Drupal website and we were given three projects to choose from. I have gone for the Charity Blog site as reading through the brief that seemed the most challenging and also very relevant to me coming from the non-profit sector it was a topic close to my heart.</p>"
---

This week we got the brief for our final project that should be finished by the end of next week. The task is to set up a Drupal website and we were given three projects to choose from. I have gone for the [Charity Blog site](http://dev-appcharity.pantheonsite.io/) as reading through the brief that seemed the most challenging and also very relevant to me coming from the non-profit sector it was a topic close to my heart.

### Tasks to do:

   ✓ Homepage: explaining what the blog is about and showcasing the latest three promoted posts

   ✓ About us: more details about our organisation

   ✓ Blog: A page at /blog showing a teaser list of all the published posts, latest first

     ✓ Blog posts should have author bios

   ✓ Get involved: explaining how people can get in touch if they would like to become a blogger on the site

   ✓ Topics: explaining the five topics we blog about

   ✓ Glossary

### Bonus points:

   ✓ A way to navigate the glossary by the first letter of the term - e.g. jump to all terms beginning with 's'.
   + **I have also added a search field with autocomplete for UX**

   ✓ Add a signup block to the get involved page but only if the user is not logged in

   ✓ Spam protection for the signup form ~ mollom, honeypot, captcha or Recaptcha

   ✓ Twitter link on profile page.

   ✓ View of posts on profile page of that bloggers posts only

   ✓  Amend the emails that Drupal sends out on signup to be more personable

 ✓   Replace the standard Drupal comments with Disqus social commenting. - Waiting for a stable version for Drupal 8

[Full brief documentation](https://crispinread.gitbooks.io/web-dev-apprenticeship-boot-camp/content/multi-user-blog.html)

## Day 1 - Plan, prototype and errors, errors everywhere
I went over the brief and picked out each element that needed to be created/added then drew up a logical order of tasks to complete to make my workflow more efficient (i.e. create users and taxonomy before adding content to make assigning easier etc.)

Within a day I have managed to:

- Install my usual modules: pathauto (ctools and token), Admin toolbar and Devel

    - Set up pathauto for content types, users and taxonomy

- Set up a new user role (blogger) with a few users and

    - Calibrated their permissions limiting it to only be able to alter their own content.

    - Added a 'bio' field to the sign up form.

- Added a new Taxonomy with the predefined blog topics

- Added new Content Type (blog post) using the 'blog topics' taxonomy not allowing users to add new terms

- Created the About, Topics, Get Involved pages

- Set up the page view for the /blog and a block for the 3 latest blog posts (for the front page)

- In the Block Layout I've added the latest blog posts block to the front page and a sign up/login to the bottom of the Get Involved page

- Added the author bio and picture at the end of every blog post as a block view.

### Challenges

#### Installing Drupal locally

Silly me thought that installing Drupal would be just as easy as Wordpress. I was wrong. So, so wrong.

I have spent almost three hours trying to tackle this task using XAMPP on both my desktop and laptop. My installation always ended with white screens of death with varying content (and Googling them did not help much). After following the Drupal 8 XAMPP install guide changing .ini files left and right for both Apache and MySQL this is how things have ended:

{% include img.html file='drupal-install-error.png' alt='massive error screen'
caption='Note how tiny my scrollbar is...yeah. Not good.' -%}

Eventually, I have managed to push out a successful install but got a constant error message above my admin menu, figured that was bad and ended up setting up a site on pantheon.io instead just to be on the safe-side.

#### Setting up a contextual filter to display the author name, bio and profile picture at the bottom of their posts

Went with my usual problem solving process:

1. Thinking about and immediately (prototyping) testing out possible 'Views'.
2. Realised I should research what contextual filters can actually do.
3. Try to solve it again.
4. Search for the [actual solution](https://drupal.stackexchange.com/questions/207238/show-authors-info-in-a-block) which I have found quickly. Turns out I wasn't too far off. Yay, success!
 
And on that note I have ended my day.

## Day 2 - Functions done

My aim was to finish up with the core requirements this day and start hacking away on the bonus objectives to have all functionality in place. By the end I was around halfway done with the latter with only a few minor things remaining, most requiring a simple module install.

While setting up views and arranging blocks I continuously think about UX to make sure they are then placed at pages convenient for users and are hidden where they do not make sense i.e. blog topics taxonomy on the sidebar is pretty useless on the actual /topics page.

{% include img.html file='ckeditortoolbar.png' alt='ckeditor toolbar'
caption='Made a nice editor toolbar for the bloggers. I have trusted them with the source code as they supposed to be digital professionals.
' -%}

### Challenges

#### Creating a view with an alphabetical contextual filter for the Glossary page

1. Created a taxonomy of glossary terms.
2. Created a page view.
3. Got stuck. I had all the terms there displaying nice and neat in a table but for the life of me I could not figure out how to set up the little menu I have envisioned with the alphabetical filter.
4. Tested a few ideas such as setting up parent terms i.e. 'A' for 'Accessibility' and 'Anchor text' but that did not work.
5. Stumbled upon the original glossary view that came with the core, took a peek and realised there was a whole world out there on top of 'blocks' and 'pages'.
6. Added an 'attachment'.
7. Took waaaay too long to realise I forgot to click 'apply' when I set up the contextual filter for the attachment with a glossary limit of 1 character.

{% include img.html file='drupal-apply.png' alt='checkbox'
caption="Turns out if you do not hit apply settings don't get applied...ooops." -%}

## Day 3 - Few final touches and getting ready for user testing

All functions were up and running today. In preparation of some user testing I have identified the following user groups:

**Readers:**

- commenters

- potential bloggers

**Bloggers**

On this day I have also:

- Changed the theme to Adaptive

- Created a new function/view called 'Get Involved' which is a short **call to action for potential bloggers** to sign up to blog with the site.

After all was done I have conducted a quick user research with the low-fid prototype (circles of feedback: 1. husband who also happens to be a charity worker in a digital department)

### The questions:

- Is each main function easily accessible to users (commenters and logged in bloggers)?

- Do users easily identify what the functionality is?

- What is getting in the way of their use of that functionality?

- What expectations do they have of potential supplemental functionality?

## Up next

The next step on the last week of Bootcamp will be to conduct a more in depth user research and testing, looking into user journeys and iterate the UI based on feedback/results. Then finalise the design before deployment.